So what's the
shape of our future?
Are we racing for
ecological catastrophe
and total surveillance, or will
technology liberate humanity
from all constraints as
we learn to change our DNA
and merge with machines?
On this episode, we're
speaking with John Peterson
of the Arlington
Institute, a futurist
think tank, and
Carter Cleveland,
the CEO of artsy.net,
about what lies ahead.
We're going to look at how
social technologies can
transform the art
world, and how art
could provide the model for how
we redesign society as a whole.
DANIEL PINCHBECK: What's
exciting you the most
at Fashion Week this week?
The outfits are amazing.
We just saw J. Manuel
and June Ambrose.
I've been liking a
lot of the edgy looks.
A lot of spikes and
rhinestones and diamonds.
The Thakoon show is
extremely exciting.
Organza.
Organza's everywhere right now.
Polka dots and some plaid,
like all mixed together.
Men with skirts.
Leather boots or sandals that
go up to-- above the knee,
wrapped in leather,
that probably
take 10 minutes to put on.
Did you make the clothes
that you're wearing?
No, not today.
I made the headpiece, though.
Sohan design coat jacket.
$2,800 purse?
Wow.
This one?
My gloves are by
Patricia Fields.
I consider myself
a walking canvas.
You guys have a
spiritual belief?
I believe there's something
inside of us-- there's a kind
of a spirit or an energy.
I think that we're
all connected.
Well, we're from the
Bay Area, so we're really
in touch with our spirituality.
(LAUGHING) What do
you mean, spirituality?
I follow my ancestors' path.
I've grown up Catholic,
so I believe in heaven.
Do you think our
immortal soul continues
to dress itself up in
flamboyant, fashionable
outfits, even after death?
-Probably.
Yes, probably.
Hello, people of the world,
and welcome to Mind Shift.
I'm your host, Daniel Pinchbeck.
Today I'm talking with the
extraordinary futurist,
founder of the Arlington
Institute, John Peterson.
And we'll be looking at future
trends, what's happening
in the cosmological,
technological, genetic future,
what do we have to
look forward to.
And I'm sure it'll
be an awesome,
fascinating discussion.
NARRATOR: A naval flight
officers in the US Navy, John
L. Peterson has worked at
various military institutions
in the United States.
In 1989 he founded the
Arlington Institute,
a futurist think
tank specializing
in predictive modeling
of future events.
The main objective of
the Arlington Institute
is to discover the early
indicators of transition,
and to provide solutions.
He was awarded Outstanding
Academic Book in 1995
by Choice Academic Review for
his work, The Road to 2015:
Profiles of the Future, and is
acclaimed as one of the world's
most important futurists.
[APPLAUSE]
-Daniel.
John, it's nice to see you.
Thanks so much for coming today.
-Thanks.
So tell me a little bit
about-- how did you get
so interested in the future?
Hmm, oh, that's a long,
kind of circuitous story.
But I was working
in the White House,
and looking out at
the kind of the future
of the military and
national security,
and ended up going
out and looking
at breakthrough technologies
and strange science,
and other kinds of things.
And what I figured
out was that there
was this convergence--
this was back 20 years
ago-- there's a convergence.
There are these big things
that were all coming together,
climate change and technology
and social value shifts.
They were all coming
together inexorably,
and going to fundamentally
change who we all were.
And then one day somebody
said, oh you're a futurist,
said I said, oh, OK.
But I've been fascinated
about it all ever since.
So how is the future looking
from where we are now?
It's extraordinary, Daniel.
We're at this amazing
kind of transition
in time that's unprecedented.
That essentially,
in my opinion, we're
at a period-- we're at the
punctuation in the evolution
of the species.
You can go back, way back,
to single cellular life,
and multiple cellular life,
and vertebrates and mammals
and so on.
And there's a regular
predictable period,
cyclical period,
that each time you
can predict that there's
going to be these major kind
of transitions.
And we're at one
of those right now.
And what's going
to come out of it?
And it's going to
be quite obvious.
It's already mainline; science
is coming to the conclusion
that grandchildren and
great grandchildren
are going to be genetically
different than who
we are right now.
So there's a new human
that's emerging out of this.
And it's enabled by a number of
things, including cosmic energy
and technology and so on.
Yeah, I'm a little confused.
Let's just take a pause
on that for a second.
I'm a little confused
about what you're saying
about this genetic change.
I mean, you're not
saying it's going
to be caused by genetic
engineering, or biotechnology,
or by us merging with machines
in a Kurzweillian sense, or a--
Ray Kurzweil is
a friend, but I'm
not a fan of that whole notion.
Which is not to say that
technology and science is not
going to have its role to play.
The notion we're talking
about is the singularity idea
that Ray Kurzweil has
populated, that somehow
humans and technology, man and
machine, are going to merge.
And we'll have, like, nanobots
in all of our organs--
Right, running
around in your brain.
Do the breathing
for us, and so on.
And I don't doubt that that's
all possible at some point,
and that it plays a role.
I mean, right now, there're only
probably half a dozen organs
in your body that
cannot be artificially
produced in one way or another.
And they're manufacturing
these things with 3D printers.
And so, I mean, sure.
Technology--
And in fact, I want to note
that John's-- the Arlington
Institute publishes
The Future Edition,
which is-- I totally recommend
people subscribing to it.
It's a wonderful
compendium of news stories,
essays, kind of really
gives you a sense
of the divergent potential
that we're moving into.
And it's free.
So what do you mean by
genetic transformation
of the human species?
Well, it's really
quite interesting.
Because certainly there's
any number of things
that we're doing to our
cells, and that science
is doing, that probably
that's going to influence.
And there's genetic engineering
going on, forever, in every way
that you can think about it.
But the most fascinating
thing, and the thing
that's compatible with
this generational shift,
is that there are now
numerous sources that suggest
that there's different kind
energy coming out of the sun
and out of the
center of the galaxy
that we haven't seen before.
And it's coming over a
period of time, over decades.
But--
What's the evidence
that backs that up?
Well, there's NASA measurements
and other kind of things that
certainly show
that the energy is
changing, that there
are certain aspects
of the energy that's changing.
I mean, weren't we expecting
a solar maximum, that
kind of hasn't really happened?
Yeah, yeah.
The last week, as
a matter of fact,
there just were--
for a number of days,
there were almost
no solar spots.
And I remember reading
that the heliosphere, which
is kind of a protective
energy the sun puts out,
has actually
decreased in strength,
like 50% over the last decades.
It has.
And so there's a combination
of these kinds of things.
And what's happening,
also, to the earth's
electromagnetic field?
Well, the magnetic
field is also decreasing,
and that's part of
the problem as well.
Because what that does is effect
the amount of the cosmic rays
that can come from
not only the sun,
but also from the
center the galaxy.
Do we have any idea as to
why the electromagnetic field
of the earth is decreasing?
Yeah, sure.
Because a couple of reasons.
There's a regular
kind of magnetic pole
shift that goes on.
And what we've been seeing
for the last 150 years
is a decrease in the
amount of the intensity
in the definition of the
north and south magnetic pole.
And now it's starting to morph,
and it's a rapidly changing.
And what they believe is
that in the next, maybe 20
years or something
like that, you
might get a literal pole shift.
When you say they, who
are some of the most
credible scientists or
researchers that people might--
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Oh, I couldn't tell
you individuals,
but this is broadly based.
And it's in NASA
and NOAA and it's
just not a question at all
about magnetic pole shift.
Well then, do you share,
kind of, the hypothesis
of certain thinkers
like Jose Arguelles,
for instance, or more mystical
thinkers like [INAUDIBLE],
maybe, that somehow humanity
is in an evolutionary process
that involves this
transformation
of consciousness?
That somehow synchronized to
these larger cosmic processes?
Absolutely.
And that's the-- and this
is the-- first of all,
it's not magic.
It's only magic if you
can't understand it.
So something is going on that's
understandable, if you're
able to understand it.
And what I'm suggesting is that
in the context of those kinds
of philosophical, if you
will, kind of framework
or explanations is
some real science that
says, at this point, what it
looks like is that there's
energy coming out
of the sun that
is enabling dormant
aspects of your DNA, that
have been dormant so far.
You know, the 90+%
they call junk DNA.
And that they're activating it.
And when that turns
on, what it does
is it starts to facilitate
the emergence of capabilities
that we haven't had in the past.
And we become a new species,
a new version of the species.
It would be great to figure
out who are the leading
sources for that information.
Well on that side of it, it's
necessarily unconventional.
Because the
conventional guys are
pretty much inside their box.
And so there are any
number of channel sources,
like kryon, if you're
familiar with kryon, that--
But that's so interesting,
because you began
as a sort of government--
because you worked in the White
House, I think you were
Naval Intelligence,
or something like that?
-No.
Naval--
I flew aircraft, airplanes.
How do you make a shift
to accepting, at least--
I had an out of
body experience.
I found myself on
the ceiling, sitting
there looking at myself.
And once I figured out after the
fact what had happened, I said,
god, this has got
to-- this doesn't-- I
can't understand this.
And then I went off, as
I said, and was looking
at these new science things.
Because I figured out that
new ideas would show up
in these areas of new science.
And I sat down one
day to a workshop
and heard Cleve Backster explain
to me how he had wired up
plants, and that they
talked, and they understood,
and they anticipated, and
they knew what he said
and everything, and
it just blew my mind.
And the logic was right there,
made sense to this engineer.
And it just drove
me into this space
that said it was--
operates-- it's much bigger
and it's much more
interesting, frankly,
than what we understand.
Well let's-- we'll
come back to the more
esoteric aspects of it.
I'm also curious
about your analysis--
and I remember
your book on 2012,
and your analysis that
there are-- you know,
the inertia of
the current system
is going to eventually
force some type
of breakdown and reconfiguring.
You know, whether
it's the financial--
We're watching it today.
We're, you know, we're--
Explain how.
Because in some ways it seems--
Well, the financial system
is going over a cliff.
I mean, it's slowly
going over a cliff,
it's not going to just
have an abrupt failure.
But today our government has--
is unable to pay its bills.
And they're scrambling
around like crazy to try
to figure out a way to do that.
And on top of that, an article
I just read this morning
is about the dark
economy, which is
working itself toward
the self destruction
of the financial system.
Because there are
1.2 quadrillion
dollars worth of value in
derivatives, none of which
are regulated.
And so what you've got is
this whole unregulated thing
underneath that's
propping up the system.
And when it starts
to turn, and it
comes unglued, which
it's starting to do,
then the whole
system comes down.
And what that does
is open up a vacuum
for the emergence
of a new world.
And that's what I spend my
time trying to think about,
is what's this new world,
and what might it look like,
and how might it work?
I mean, it seemed leading
up to, for instance, 2012,
it seemed more likely that
this-- this disruptive event
on the financial scale
or whatever might happen
more rapidly or radically.
And in a sense, I think some
people, myself included,
are actually kind of impressed
with how the system has
stabilized itself.
-Yeah.
It's very interesting
because I, too,
thought that on a
number of occasions--
and it wasn't just me.
A number of people said,
man, next week, the thing
can't maintain itself.
And then you find out that there
is a whole lot of people who
are trying to keep this thing
going, and keep it propped up,
and throw money.
I mean, particularly,
we saw just money get
thrown into the financial
system unlike anything
had ever happened ever
before in history.
And nobody just-- nobody
thought that that was
an option that was available.
And so there's a lot
of creativity that
goes into trying to
maintain the status quo,
but they're going to run out--
they're running out of options.
And what do you
see in terms of what
you study, in terms
of a climate change,
where we're heading
in that area?
Climate change is
interesting because I think
that there's very
significant emerging
indications from broadly based.
Some of it comes
from Russia, but it's
more broadly based now.
That is suggesting that we're
not in the global warming.
No global warming.
The planet has not
warmed in 12 years.
That's solid science.
And what's happening
and what we've seen
is the rap-- the oscillation
before you get a state change.
And so it's been
hotter and it's been
colder on this planet, different
places, for the last few years
than it's ever been.
We've been-- we've got more ice.
There's more ice in the Arctic
that-- that grew this season
than in any time in the past.
So you don't, for instance,
agree with somebody
like Bill McKibben?
-No.
-No?
-No, I don't.
I think that they're not looking
at the full spectrum of things.
And again, what
you're moving toward,
I think, and it'll be obvious
in about three or four years,
that it's going to
be a mini Ice Age.
And it'll last for maybe-- what
the best science now looks at,
if you look at the trends,
the times in the past,
and how long it is,
and how it starts,
and so on-- that it'll
probably be about a--
they call it about a generation.
20, 25 years or something.
It'll be really cold and
then it'll probably--
and then it'll
come back probably.
Because I thought it was
pretty clear that the science
on global warming
was fairly convincing
in terms of a million tons
of CO2 into the atmosphere
every hour--
-Yeah.
Look at the new IPCC report
that's going to-- they
just leaked it yesterday.
And what they're finding out is
that they-- all of their models
overstated the warming by
a factor of, in some cases,
a factor of three.
The planet has not warmed
the amount that they all
thought it was going to warm.
And now they're scrambling
around, trying to maintain--
trying to figure
out some kind of way
to maintain-- keep the
machine and the funding going.
And the ideas going.
I mean, science has got
all of this vested interest
in keeping their ideas doing.
And-- and-- that they're
very hard to-- they
don't back down and change
their mind very easily.
And particularly when there's
a lot of money involved.
So let's take another
area of prediction,
which would be technology.
Mm hm.
From your perspective,
you mentioned
that you don't buy into
the singularity idea
of man and machine merging.
What-- where do you think
technology is heading?
And what kind of impact is that
going to have in the future?
Well, I don't know if I'd
quite say it that way, Daniel.
The-- the-- you--
you're clearly moving
yourself into an exponential
increase in technology.
Unprecedented.
And so you easily, in
Ray Kurzweilian terms,
you could get yourself
out to a place and say,
my, oh, my, the machines take
over, the computers, and we all
start to work for 'em.
Or something like that.
I don't think that's
necessarily going to happen,
but you can see that.
And in particular, you can see
that in terms of strong AI,
strong artificial intelligence.
Strong artifi-- we
all know about what
artificial intelligence is.
That's when you pick up the
phone to call the airline
and you get this voice
on the other that says,
punch one, or two, or tell me.
That's artificial intelligence.
And it's not real, but it
has a distinct kind of set
of things it knows how to do.
Strong AI, real and
artificial intelligence,
is when somebody like-- when
you've got an agent, a computer
agent, that acts like you.
Lord.
What-- what-- what
would that be like?
But if you have a human
being, like a research--
like a research
assistant or someone
like that, that goes
out to find things,
and checks with somebody
else, and makes decisions,
and comes back, and so on.
I'd-- I tell the story about--
you go to your agent and say,
I need some tires on my car.
And the agent says, well, OK.
And the agent knows
what kind of car
you got, and knows
what size tires,
and knows how long
you've driven it,
and it goes, and
finds them, and says--
So-- so in that
sense, you're seeing
a world where technology
is more responsive
to human desire and need.
Absolutely.
Because what you
can do, in fact,
is layer these things, so
that you can put it-- 100,000
of them all on top
of each other to try
to solve intractable and
seemingly intractable problems.
And so what it does
is blow open the--
You have people like the
authors of that book Abudance--
Oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Sure.
Saying that think
that technology
will evolve to solve all human
problems the next 30 years.
Yeah.
Now we only have a
few minutes before we
bring out our next guest.
And then we're going
to bring the two of you
together to chat.
I thought I would ask
you also-- because I
know you mentioned channeling.
And I know you're also
interested in kind
of the psychic, paranormal,
kind of extrasensory aspects
of this transition.
Could you explain to me
how-- is the future integrate
or incorporate kind
of a deeper and wider
understanding of the psyche?
-Yeah.
I think so.
I think it's inevitable.
I think-- I back-- I back
myself up to the basic notion
is that it's going
to have change,
then it's going to change.
It is not going to be like this.
And every other time you have
one of those transitions,
from the previous one, it would
be impossible to anticipate
the succeeding one.
I mean, if you're
single cellular life
and you look
around, you're never
going to figure out
that there's going to be
multiple cellular life, right?
And so we are
literally at this place
where the future is, in
general terms, unthinkable.
It has the potential to be
so dramatically different
than anything we think.
So if you buy that and you're
able to kind of work your way
into that space to make some
sense out of it, what you
immediately do is
start to say, well,
what could we do differently?
And you end at the
psychic and the-- the--
and the ability to
do-- do-- do telepathy,
and to manifestation, and any
number of other kind of things.
And the indicators are there.
And there are many kind of--
What-- what do you mean,
the indicators are there?
I mean, there's
many, many sources,
necessarily unconventional
because this is-- we're talking
unconventional things, who
independently come to the--
come to the same
conclusion and say, well,
one of the characteristics
of this in the human
is going to be the ability
to manifest faster.
Right now, the best
guess and understanding
that I have about how reality
works is consciousness
is causal.
And your consciousness in
time kind of manifests itself
into causality.
And you get this glass
came from an idea
that somebody first had.
And then in time, it
made itself into that.
OK, well, the whole notion of
accelerating the manifestation
is to shorten that
period between the idea
and the intention to the
physical-- physical form.
And if that starts to
happen, and many sources
say that that's kind of
what's going to happen,
then what you start to get is an
acceleration of the whole kind
of system, in terms of the
people being able to manifest
and-- and produce
the essential kind
of functions and components
of the new world.
Cool.
So what I get from you is
that all we've got to do
is think the unthinkable and
accelerate the manifestation.
It-- it-- it's not
quite that simple,
but that's essentially it.
Yeah.
-Right on.
-Yeah.
There-- there's a process.
And there's a
process of intention.
And it has to do with feeling,
and it has to do clear imagery,
and so on.
But yes.
Yeah.
So do you feel that, in
terms of your own work,
kind of formulating these
models, or mappings,
or predictions somehow
can help influence
the future to come into--
Ab-- absolutely.
I mean, that's the
essential thing for people,
like you and I, who are
interested in this new world.
The whole objective
is to build a model,
build an image that
you can hold up
that starts to make some
sense for a lot of folks,
so they can look at it.
And you get-- you
get entrainment.
You get lots of people
that are starting
to say, yeah, that could work.
I want it to be blue
instead of green.
And yeah.
And you kind of shape it.
But that's what
does not exist now.
A model of what the new world
looks like does not exist.
And that's what one of the
projects that we're working on
at The Arlington Institute--
is to start to build
a simple model, that
you can hold up,
that everybody can
shoot at, but at least
it starts the conversation.
Great.
Well, listen, when we
come back with you,
we're going to discuss
how art can contribute
to formulating that model.
Thank you so much.
-Yes.
Certainly.
And we'll talk
in another minute.
So our next guest is Carter
Cleveland, the founder
and CEO of artsy.net.
We're going to talk about
how social technologies
are transforming the art world
and the world in general.
Maybe a little bit
about Burning Man.
So thank you.
And let's-- let's get on.
NARRATOR: Carter Cleveland is
the founder of the website,
Artsy, which he created
during his senior year
at Princeton University.
The goal of the
site is to quote,
"be the place where every
single user in the world
goes to discover art online."
Son of art historian and
collector, David Cleveland,
Carter has successfully
fund raised over $7 million
for his site.
Artsy created the
Art Genome Project,
a study of the characteristics
that distinguish and connect
works of original art.
In May, 2010, Artsy
received the Yahoo
Rookie Award in the New
York City conference,
TechCrunch Disrupts.
[APPLAUSE]
Good to see you, Carter.
Thank you so much for coming.
Thank you so much
for having me.
It's an honor.
-Thanks.
And so tell me a
little bit about Artsy.
How you got started with
it and what your vision is.
Sure.
So at Artsy, our
vision is we want art
to become as important
a part of human culture
as music is today.
Our mission is to
make all the world's
art accessible to anyone
with an internet connection.
That's how we think we're going
to make our vision possible.
And our goal, as a business--
so we are-- we're a for-profit.
And the only way
something so ambitious
would ever be
financially possible
or sustainable is by
tapping into the market
and also expanding
the art market.
So as a business, our goal,
certainly in the short term,
is to be the best place on
the internet to discover art,
and also to collect
art, and buy art.
On Artsy, we have, by
far, the largest rights
cleared database of modern
and contemporary fine art
in the world.
You can go there and you
can learn all about it.
We also have something called
The Art Genome Project, which
is inspired by Pandora's
Music Genome Project, which
is essentially
metadata that's applied
to every artist and artwork.
We call this metadata--
we call them genes.
But what they really
are is they are
scores for every
possible characteristic
that could apply to art.
So for instance, you could
imagine a Mark Rothko work
having 100 in abstract
expressionism,
and 100 in New York school,
and maybe an 80 in color field
painting, and maybe a 40 in
geometric because of the sort
of rough geometric composition.
And the average artwork
has between 20 to 30 genes.
We use The Art Genome Project
to recommend other works of art
you might like.
And so people can sort
of trace paths through--
So in the same way,
if I go to Amazon,
it will recommend books to me.
Or if I go to Spotify,
it'll recommend music.
And so on.
-Yeah, exactly.
And so it's a way to
both learn about the art,
but also discover new things
and kind of walk through space
and time through art history.
And if you're
interested in buying,
you can also see
what's exhibiting
at all the top galleries
around the world.
And you get a
personal specialist
who will work with
you, answer questions,
can help you transact.
But tell me a little bit about
like your personal passion.
I understand your father
was an art critic.
I mean, was there--
did you come into this
with some particular
mission or sense
that there was like a need
that needed to be met here?
You know, it's interesting.
Like I don't have the typical
background of an entrepreneur.
I was not selling
lemonade as a kid,
but it really does-- it really
does come from my parents.
So yes.
My father is an art writer.
And from a very young
age, I was extremely lucky
that I got-- well, often
dragged to galleries
and museums as a kid.
And he would, very patiently,
talk to me about the art.
And so I had this very kind
of strong passion for art
from a young age.
But actually, my
mom's side of family
is all sort of a long line
of physicists, some of whom
are quite famous.
And what I really excelled at,
as a kid, was math and physics.
And my goal was actually to
be a theoretical physicist
when I grew up.
So I originally went
to school for physics,
but I ended up falling
in love with programming.
And particularly, I saw a course
called Artificial Intelligence.
And I guess I read a lot of
science fiction as a kid.
And so when I-- when I saw
that I could actually now
learn about it and
like build AI myself,
it was-- I basically
switched my major just
to be able to take that course.
And I fell in love programming.
And it was during my
senior year of college
when I was looking
around online.
And, you know, there was
Netflix for-- for all
the world's films.
And there was Pandora for
all the world's music.
And right around
the corner, Spotify
was coming out for
all the world's art--
oh, all the world's music.
And it just felt like a
giant gap in the internet
was missing.
Like where is the platform
with all the world's art?
And, of course, what a fantastic
opportunity to work on the two
things I was passionate about
because it seemed clear to me
that whatever filled
that gap would
have a recommendation and
artificial intelligence
component to it.
I really had no idea
about kind of business
or how we would make
money at the time.
But I'm happy to say
that five years later,
it's-- it actually looks like
this could be quite a massive,
successful, commercial business.
I know you've gotten
some investment here
from some major galleries like
[INAUDIBLE], and [INAUDIBLE],
and so on.
-Mm hm.
So-- and do you think there's
anything about the art world
in it's current form
that needs to change
or open up in some way?
I mean, do you think there's
any way that Artsy can help
kind of bring about that shift?
You know?
-Yeah.
I mean, I think that there
are-- there are largely
two things about the art
world that I think we would
like to positively impact.
On the business level,
there's a lot of inefficiency.
If you want to buy or sell
art in the market today,
it's very inefficient.
It takes a long time and
it can be very hard to find
the optimal counter party.
And the transaction
costs are very high.
So we think we can
lower those costs.
We think we can speed it up.
We think we can,
most importantly,
greatly expand the market,
which means more artists are
going to be able to pursue their
passions in a sustainable way.
That's sort of on the business
and the economic side.
On the cultural side, you know,
you'll notice a big difference
between, you know, if you
record the average conversation
about art and kind of--
you take out all the words
and you just listen to the
tones and the frequencies.
And then you take the
average conversation
about film or about music.
Average conversation
in the art world.
There's a lot-- you'll just
notice a lot more-- I would say
a lot more conversations
that are not even actually
about the art.
There are often people being
upset about how much money
certain people are making,
or how much things cost,
or there's a lot
kind of like meta
conversation about the
state of the market itself.
Whereas, in-- you know,
you can talk to anyone
you want on the
street about music
and get into this
passionate conversation
about the last concert
you went to, or about how
this song made you feel.
And no one's afraid
to ask questions.
Like, you know, I didn't
really get that movie.
Or I'm not-- I don't
really understand
why the director did that.
Or, you know, I just didn't
really like this movie.
In the art world,
there's a lot of fear.
Like a lot of people are afraid
to ask questions, to admit
that they don't
understand things.
There's a lot of
critical jargon also.
I mean, you find it in the
art magazines and so on.
Yeah.
It's almost like
telling you, you know,
if you don't understand all
these fancy words we're using,
you sort of don't
deserve to be part of it.
So there's this intimidation.
There are all these
negative emotions.
It almost has like a magical,
religious language that's
formulated around
it, which maybe has
to do with the enshrining
these objects at such
a tremendous level
of value, you know.
And we very much
believe in notion
of-- of the sacred
nature of the art
and how important the art is.
And-- and in the same way that
there are beautiful museums
and churches erected
to honor art,
we believe-- we take that
same level of seriousness
with the digital product we
are creating on the internet.
We really believe
Artsy-- or we are trying
to make Artsy the
most beautiful place
on the internet to house art.
That being said,
this notion of art
being something that some people
don't deserve to have access
to, or that should
be intimidating,
or that you should--
that the notion
of having the-- these negative
emotions, these-- the fear.
You know, art is fundamentally
about human expression,
and love, and you know.
But when you look at
the art market today,
you don't find as much of that.
And I think a lot of that comes
because there are-- there are
these latent sort of
issues and scar tissue
beneath the surface.
And I think that if
the market was more
open, if everyone
had access-- I mean,
look at music 100 years ago.
If you could talk
about going to concerts
or-- or having seen
professional musicians play,
it was very much a sign that you
were part of a certain class.
You are differentiating
yourself from the common
who didn't have that access.
But now that everyone has
access to music today,
all of those tensions
have evaporated.
So we believe that by creating
access in the art world--
They're very different
economic models, right?
What you have in the art
world and the music world.
They're kind of-- they're
kind of opposed to each other
almost.
Or, I mean--
In the early days of
music, the economic model
was paying for a performance
and it was quite expensive.
And now you can pay
for the performance
or you can listen to online for
a small monthly fee to Spotify.
So we think there
are also-- the point
is that different
business models emerge.
You know, I agree with--
I haven't read the book,
but I guess-- I'm guessing
that the thesis of Abundance
is that we will live
in a world of abundance
when information becomes free.
And I think in an
abundant world,
business models will emerge to
service all social and economic
classes.
Mm hm.
And I believe that will happen
in the art world as well.
In terms of a context where
art is maybe experienced
in sometimes sacred,
sometimes as play,
you and I share a connection
to the Burning Man Festival.
And I was going to
ask you, you know,
how that has impacted your
vision and also your sense
of the role of art in society?
Oh, yeah.
It's a good question.
You know, it's interesting.
When I went to Burning
Man the first time--
Well, first of all, how would
describe Burning Man for people
who never have been there?
What would you-- what
would you call it?
Well, I describe it
differently than, I guess,
how most people do.
So I describe Burning Man
as a week long experiment
in intentional community.
So the idea is saying, what if
we threw out all the rules, all
the social norms, all
the legacy software
that our society is built upon?
Which, you know,
very useful software
when you're out in
the jungle and you
need to survive as a community.
But, you know, right
now, we live in this era
of emerging abundance.
We're not there yet,
but we're getting there.
We can afford to-- to
try out some pretty
radical experiments.
And I think Burning Man is maybe
the best example of saying,
let's throw out the
rule book, let's
throw out all the
legacy software
and start from scratch.
Just-- just one
question though.
When you say we're in a
situation of an emerging
abundance, I mean, do you feel
that's true across the board?
I mean, a lot of activists
in like The Occupy Movement
feel that the abundance is
very, very unevenly spread.
It is, if you focus on
traditional definitions
of abundance, which are tied to
material goods, such as money.
However-- and again
it's emerging.
We're not there yet.
But once you hit the point
where you have enough money
to have a computer and
access to the internet,
the richest person
in the world spends
probably about 80%
of their waking
hours in front of the screen.
And once you're in
front of the screen,
your experience is
exactly the same.
But-- but my joke is it's
like almost everybody really
ultimately has the
same job these days,
just staring at a little
thing and going like that.
The point is money is
starting to really not matter
for people, once they get to the
point where they have enough.
It's sort of like
Maslow's hierarchy.
You know, food, shelter, sex.
But then once you get
free Wi-Fi and a computer
to access it from, the
differences really,
really start to go away.
You know, it used to be,
oh my god, like how much--
you have this much water?
Well, I have this much water.
OK.
Eventually, water
comes out of the tap.
We stop caring about it.
It just becomes a default.
-Right.
You know, money and
physical resources
are moving in that same
direction as everything moves
towards an information economy,
which can be infinitely
leveraged by the internet.
All that's going to
matter at that point
is, what gifts can
you give to this kind
of information universe?
How can you-- you know,
it's interesting--
Which is very much a
Burning Man ethos, right?
The gift rather than
the transaction.
Exactly.
And at Burning Man-- so it's a
sort of experimental community
in the desert.
And you start
everything from scratch.
All the social norms
are completely gone.
You know, just to give you one
example, my-- one of my best
friends who's gay
complained that you can't
tell who's gay at Burning Man.
In the default world,
it's very obvious
because, you know, they're
all a little better looking,
and a little bit more, you know,
ripped, and they dress better.
You know, at Burning Man,
everyone just looks crazy.
So you have no idea, right?
So it's just one example
of when you remove
the legacy software, one of
these beautiful, emergent
properties.
And I remember kind of having
this amazing experience with
someone there the first time.
And, you know, for
her, Burning Man was
this life changing experience.
And she was going to go back,
and she was going to leave
her job, and move to India.
And for me, it was also
life changing experience.
But for me, like I
got off the plane
and I went straight
from the airport
to our office still
covered in playa dust
with like a bloody tissue
hanging out of my nose.
Because for me, it was like
it gave me a vision of the way
culture should be and the way
the world could be when it
comes to human self expression
and how we relate to each other
around that self expression.
And it-- and it gave me
a little vision of like,
this is actually
what we could make
the whole world like
if Artsy's successful
when it comes to art.
Because in Burning Man
there's incredible art.
Yeah.
Incredibly beautiful art.
I think I-- I think I
mentioned to you that I
wrote an article, an
essay, about Burning Man
in the "Art Forum."
-For "Art Forum."
For "Art Forum."
Which ended up getting me
black balled from "Art Forum."
I never was able to write
there again under that editor.
And partially, it was because.
I think, that I suggested that
this idea that you would just
have these pieces that are
much more about celebration
for a whole community to share
in than the physical objects
future existence as an
archival work-- it was not-- it
was not even an interest.
You actually burn the
work there, you know.
So that idea, I think, the
collector and critical base
for Art Forum found
threatening at that point.
Though I think that that's
beginning to change over time.
Sometimes it seems to
me that contemporary art
world a little bit supports like
a kind of egocentric worldview.
Like the ego of the
wealthy collector, the ego
of the artist, and so on.
And Burning Man suggests
a different-- maybe
a more-- a healthier
relationship
to art and creativity.
-Yeah.
And, I mean, you know, I try
and always look for, you know,
what are very
tangible facts that we
can ground these ideas in.
And it really is-- just
look at the conversations
at Burning Man about the art.
There-- it's like
returning to this sort
of childlike innocence.
It's like, oh, did
you see this one?
Yeah.
It was so cool.
Like, yeah, it really, really
made me think about this.
Oh, interesting.
Like, I didn't really get that.
Or what about this other one?
Like, you know,
it's really cool.
Like, I couldn't quite
understand what the point was.
Like, you know, did you
have any insight there?
And it's just-- it's
like these conversations
that are just-- just-- it's
just the way it should be.
It's just very genuine.
It it's not like, oh, yeah, that
was-- oh, yeah, it was so deep.
Like, everyone pretending
like they understood it,
but no one did.
Or like people being-- you
know, it's right there for you
in the desert.
Like, there's no--
you don't have to be
invited to a fancy, VIP party.
And by the way, Artsy does
plenty of fancy, VIP parties.
I'm not saying those
things don't make sense.
But when you look at the
fundamental relationship
of the human to the art and then
the inter-human relationships
around the art, it's just
so positive and pure.
And that's a very tangible
thing you can feel.
And it's like, how
do you take that
and how do you extend that
to the rest of the world?
Very cool.
So in a few minutes, we're going
to bring back on John Peterson
and have little bit of a three
way dialogue around the future
and what role art
plays in that future.
And yeah.
We just thought maybe
talk a little bit
about how you see
social technology,
in general, kind of being part
of our evolutionary process.
And where you see that
that might bring us
in 5, 10, 20 years, you know.
Absolutely.
I'm excited to.
Do you see a trend towards
more sustainable design,
and more sustainable
fabrics, and so on?
Absolutely.
The eco-friendly
trend is amazing.
There's a big turnout at
those shows, surprisingly.
I don't know if it's people
trying to feel good--
Um-- it's a good question.
I never really
actually looked at it.
I think us, as,
you know, species,
will always need
animals to live.
When I source the
materials, you know,
I do that responsibly.
All of our vendors have to
go through an audit process
from us.
The designers are
already catching onto that
and trying to do the best they
can to help the environment.
Do you guys ever get
worried that there's
like a secret government
that's like in touch
with extraterrestrials?
I mean, it's so
possible, but, I guess,
it doesn't matter to me.
Oh, I-- I don't think
there's any aliens.
I do believe that.
There are aliens among us
and we just don't know.
I don't believe in it.
My only question is, are
you an extraterrestrial?
Your only question.
You're not allowed to ask
questions, I'm the questioner.
Do you think now, in
this time, that there's
like a giant sort of tying
together of spirit and science?
I definitely believe so.
Like I'm a, you know, biology
major and-- saying so,
you know, I've very
logical thinking,
but very spiritual as well.
Why are people so focused
on all these celebrities
who have no meaning
or importance
for their real, tangible lives?
I feel like some people
don't have any meaning
in their own lives, so they
look at other people's lives
for the answers.
People are going
to look and go,
wow, you know, you're
so-- what is that?
That special, $50,000,
custom design suit.
I mean they are blazers
that are $15,000.
How is that different
from a blazer
that, you know, $60 at H&M?
-Yeah.
You tell me.
I don't know.
I'm wearing H&M head
to toe, my friend.
This is Pacific Sunwear.
There you go.
I love it.
You have to, like, wake up and
just give thanks for everything
that you do have,
but then always
realize that there's
something better
that you can do
to keep bettering
yourself and improving.
If you don't make other
people's life better,
you are not making a
good work in your life.
I think we should have
a little group hug.
Group hug.
(TOGETHER) Group hug!
[APPLAUSE]
-OK.
So let's start with the
question of social technology,
social networks.
How do you to see it
aiding in human evolution
in the next 5, 10, 20 years?
Where do you see
it's going, Carter?
I know that this is a-- people
are very divided on this issue.
I actually think that
while in the short term,
we are experiencing a
lot of people struggling
with addiction to
social networks--
I think it's very similar to
when we first started using
cars, and we didn't
have seat belts,
and we didn't understand not
to be drunk while driving.
And I think once we understand
how to discipline ourselves
and deal with the increasing
distractions, which I think
largely will come through
people being more conscious,
and meditating, and
understanding things like that,
I think social networks are
ultimately an incredibly
powerful force for positive
change in the world
and in civilization.
I think they are fundamentally
empowering people.
It will result in governments
being held more accountable
to the people, people
having more power to rally
against dictatorships,
and for people to stay
more connected and positive.
And I actually think
it's going to help
reduce war and conflict.
Now we saw-- I'll ask
your opinion in one second,
but I just wanted to follow
up on that for one second.
Obviously, some of the
Arab Spring, and the power
of Twitter, and even with
The Occupy Movement-- Twitter
and Facebook to
help people realize
that they shared a common
interest in overturning,
like, the current structure.
But unfortunately, those
social technologies
were not of any use when it
came to kind of developing
a new, shared power system.
Do you think that
social networks--
CARTER CLEVELAND:
What do you mean?
What do you mean by that?
Well, I mean that,
you know, essentially
what happened is that this kind
of authoritarian government
kind of reasserted
itself in a vacuum.
You know, is it possible
that the next evolution
of social technologies
and social networks
could actually take over some
of the function of a kind
of ordering society, kind of
governing all the difference
aspects of society?
In a sense, even
supplant or displace
some of the traditional
functions of government.
Well, I think that for social
technology to have an impact,
you need to have the basic
infrastructure in place
before that.
So if you have a country
that doesn't have
basic infrastructure--
like social technology
is only once you have
the basics in place.
Otherwise, you're dealing with
just the problems countries
deals without infrastructure.
Yeah.
I think that, like, as social
technology allows more people
to be engaged-- I
think, like, in the US
we have, in theory, a pretty
good system of keeping
government quite minimal.
I think the problem right
now is that the interaction
between government and its
citizens is very inefficient.
It's like if I can get-- if
I can rally a lot of power
around my cause, I
can get things done.
And that's where it breaks down
because then you have lobbying
and you have sort of
special interest groups.
And I think social
technology is going
to be reducing a lot of
the barriers to entry
to the general population
engaging with the government.
And one of the problems
with that is what emerges
is, like, these extreme
divides of one extreme
or the other extreme
because that's only way
you can rally people together.
I think social
technology is going
to allow the average citizen
to engage more with government
and have their
voice being heard.
So I actually don't think that
we need, in the US at least,
a major revolution here.
I just think we
need more engagement
from the average citizen to be--
so that they'll feel-- they'll
be more knowledgeable,
and they'll
feel more empowered, and more
in touch with their government.
And I think that's
actually the solution
to a lot of the power--
current, artificial power
structures that have emerged.
I actually that's probably
the best solution there.
So John, what are you thoughts?
I think social technology
is the current and last
manifestation of the
emergence of a global brain,
of a global nervous system.
This is a track that's moving
itself-- that's clearly moving
itself down toward
the integration
of-- the increasingly closer
integration of minds in people
from all over the world, in ways
that will ultimately-- people
like Peter Russell
and many others
have talked about the
emergence of a global brain.
And I think social
networking is on the way to,
clearly, the latest
kind of aspect of that.
There are a couple
of interesting kind
of notions about that.
You raised the possibility
of the government
and what it has to do
with the government.
Clearly, I would argue,
you're on your way
to a truly
representative government
where you represent yourself.
And there's a place
downstream-- where our present
government's all designed for
somebody to climb on a horse,
and ride to Washington DC,
and represent them, you know,
from someplace where-- where the
populace can't-- can't go to.
And so that's all-- that's
all going to break down.
What's also going to happen
with social networking is--
I would say your perspective
is distinct from his where he
doesn't-- he's
sort of suggesting
that the social networks would
allow for a gentle reformation.
Oh, no.
And what I get from your--
from your perspective
is that the inertia of
the-- of the old structure
requires a deeper level
of transformation.
Yeah.
I do.
And I think that
Occupy, for instance,
and you make a good point, is
that you get an initial kind
of-- an initial push.
And-- of social networking
allowed that to happen.
And then the system
built-- breaks that down
and pushes that back.
And what happens,
ultimately, is somebody else
figures out another to do it.
And whether it's WikiLeaks
or some other kind of thing.
And they each get
beat back originally.
And then suddenly, they start
getting smarter and figure out.
And what you're seeing
is the emergence
of those kind of
capabilities that
are going offset the kind
of a linear, vertical,
vertically oriented aspect--
So for as Napster
was to Spotify,
Occupy could be to the next
iteration of that impulse,
in a way.
Absolutely.
I think there are a gazillion
different people all around who
are figuring out--
trying to ways-- how
to work their way
around the NSA and work
their way around the whatever.
All of the problems--
the present system
and the encrusted
linear kind of thing.
You-- you think the current
system will be overthrown?
I think, ultimately--
but overthrow
doesn't mean radically.
I think that what you're
seeing is a accelerating
degeneration of the system.
An implosion of the system.
Necessarily, it's
bankrupt and it's
unsustainable at its structure.
The basic-- the essential
nature of it is not sustainable.
And so they keep pushing
money and everything else
to try and prop it a bit up.
Whether you look at
the financial system,
or the geopolitics, or
the scientific system,
or energy, or agriculture.
Work your way across it.
Every one of them is embattled.
And they're all-- there's
all these new ideas that
are coming in that
are radical new things
and they're trying to fight.
They fight them back,
but they're, ultimately--
you know what you're watching.
The whole system is
going to degenerate.
A vacuum is going to open it up.
Comes the emergence
of the new world.
So let's talk a
little bit about the,
you know, potential that
art plays a major role
in this shift of values
in this transmutation
or reformation of society.
How do you think
that-- what do you see?
Is there a greater value
of art for social change
than we've seen
up to this point?
Well, let me build you
a theoretical framework
for thinking about that, which
is really quite interesting,
to me at least.
If you go to a lot of
Angelican channelled,
and other kinds of sources,
and you build a synthetic kind
of framework about how they
say that reality works, what
they say is, there's just one.
Everything is one.
And the kind of
the reality that we
hear-- that we experience right
now is like a piece of paper.
And it's like six
reams of paper.
And each reality is
one on top of another
and they all exist concurrently.
And so-- and so, in fact,
your past lives, for instance,
are all existing right now.
And all your future lives.
And what you do is--
-[INAUDIBLE].
-Yeah.
And you could bleed
through between the--
or you can drill down,
if you take that imagery.
And so that you can
get transmission
between the different
kind of aspects.
There is an extraordinary
interesting guy
named Clif High,
who's got a website
called halfpasthuman.com.
Works with web bots.
And what he has done is
built an amazing kind
of predictive
capability by sending
these web bots out on the web.
And what they do is that they
look at how language changes.
And they do these
longitudinal cuts.
And then they-- he's got
a cosmological framework.
And he looks at how the language
changes from time to time.
And he sees-- and
the whole premise
is that the waves of change,
the major perturbations,
bleed through and they have
a bow wave, if you will,
that come through.
And they show up in
language beforehand.
And if you can find it,
you can anticipate, by six
months or something like that--
Although I have say, I
enjoyed halfpasthuman,
but it did seem like a lot
his more drastic predictions
didn't really come
to bring much.
Well, he's pretty good.
You have to understand
the mechanics--
the specifics of it.
But the-- the
notion is-- and he's
been right, six
months ahead of time,
on 9/11 and some
other kind of thing.
The notion is that you have
this anticipated-- anticipatory
kind of function
that flys-- that runs
its way through the system.
Art, I think, is a
precursor-- and I have friends
that argue that they can do it.
That they can look
at art and they
can see through the emergent
art the leading edge
of where the society is going.
And that, in fact, that if you--
if you know how to read the tea
leaves, if you will,
that, in fact, you
can start to see how the
values, and the changes,
and stuff start to
manifest themselves.
Because artists, to
my way of thinking,
are the ones who are
working their way down
into that ephemeral, soft,
and emergent kind of space
and trying to put kind
of form to those feelings
and those ideas that
have not yet emerged.
And so that-- so in some--
-Well, what--
-Yeah.
-What do you think about that?
I think that's a
really, really beautiful
way of thinking about it.
And I thought
about it similarly,
but not-- art is like
mankind's tea leaves, you know.
And I think that's--
you know, what I always
sort of thought about
was how-- it would
take a lot of art history.
And it's like, how does art
history complement history?
And when you hear about-- you
know, I didn't-- I wasn't there
for the Vietnam War.
And when I'm told
about Vietnam War,
and the atrocities,
and the deaths,
I'm sort of hit
by these numbers.
And I'm like, this is
clearly a very bad thing.
But it's this kind of like--
you can't process the numbers
and convert them into,
like, the reality
of what it was in any
meaningful, important way.
You know, then you see The
Vietnam War Memorial in DC.
And it like hits
you really hard.
And it's almost addressing
that exact thing
by just focusing on the
names and the sheer number.
And when I saw that the
Director of The Art Genome
Project at Artsy got his PH.D.
in art history, and his thesis
was published, and it was
about art of the Vietnam War.
And when you see the art--
like, for me, just flipping
through the pictures-- just
looking through the pictures
in his book, it was like
kind of hitting me, hitting
me, hitting me, hitting me.
It's like different slices.
And like no slice is the direct,
analytical, objective slice
that says here, are the numbers.
By the numbers,
here's what happened.
Here is, factually,
what happened.
It's like a
different-- well, here
is like my emotional reaction
to it as one artist put it.
And another one, here is
my emotional reaction.
And so when you get all
these different slices,
you sort of-- you sort of finish
and you're just like, wow.
You like-- and obviously, it'll
never be anything close to what
it really was, but
it's so much closer
than just having seen the data.
And I am very much from
a science background,
so I'm all about the data, and
about logic, about science,
and I believe in
it, and I love it.
But it really does, for
me, show the power of art
in communicating, perhaps,
like a deeper truth.
Well, beyond communication,
I mean, one thing, I think,
that I finally fascinating about
Burning Man is that you could
look at the entire thing as an
art work, or as a sculpture,
as like a social sculpture.
And-- and the social
sculpture's constructed from,
like, a set of game rules
that's given to people.
And we have game rules in our
society that we all live by
and we've just forgotten
that there are rules
that we basically agreed upon.
So it kind of shows that
society itself is actually
like an art project, you know?
I mean, could art become, on
an even deeper level, kind
of like a template for how
we think about social design
on so many levels, you know?
Well, I think Burning
Man is a wonderful example
of the emergence of this.
And just as Carter
suggested, in the same way,
it's just this bow wave.
It's this emergent
kind of notions
that people are
trying to figure out,
what is the new way in which
this whole thing could go?
And I think that's a wonderful,
wonderful example of that.
And how do you guys feel
about the negative corollary
of social networks and
social technologies
as being the kind of
disappearance of a privacy,
you know?
And I recently saw a futurist
kind of talk about it.
And he just said,
look, you know,
privacy is just over basically.
Like, you might as well
just get used to it.
I mean, do you feel
that's the case?
And do you feel that's
necessarily a bad thing?
It's an interesting
question that I've
spent some time thinking about.
And one of them that I'd
like to get some money
run a project at
my institute about
because there are a
couple of scenarios there.
And one would be that,
in fact, there is a world
where there is no privacy.
And somehow humanity
adapts to that,
adopts it, and morphs into
some kind of way in which you
maintain some sense of
integrity, personal integrity,
in the face of-- of
extraordinary transparency.
Parenthetically, by the
way, the whole equation
is backwards because it should
be that the government is
transparent and the--
Absolutely.
And the individual, the
citizens, have privacy.
And it's-- it's the
wrong way around.
Or is privacy-- I mean,
you wouldn't have privacy
in the same since if you
lived in, like, a tribe
in the jungle, for instance?
Like, everybody was kind of
transparent to each other.
Yeah.
But we don't live in
tribes in jungles anymore.
And so the question is, if you--
But is privacy itself
a kind of a construction
of a certain type of, you
know, kind of social, you know,
existence?
I mean, that's sort
of where I'm at.
I mean, it's hard to really
examine things on a really
abstract level like that.
But I was thinking, on
the subway over here,
just about the
notion of freedom.
And, like, it is hard
to put it in completely
analytical, logical terms.
But freedom seems just like
such a fundamental purpose
and reason to be.
Privacy-- I do wonder if
privacy is sort of this notion
that we kind of
have as a remnant
of, like, recent society.
I don't really see what's so
fundamental about privacy.
And I-- and I do-- if I had
to-- I wouldn't necessarily
advise policy because I'd
want to think it through more
and talk to more smart people.
But if I had to kind
of make a gut call,
I would say that a world where
everyone knows everything
about everyone with
zero privacy is probably
going to be an awesome world.
But that does go both
ways to the government.
Let me just-- you
had asked me earlier--
Doctor, sure.
What the characteristics
of a new human would be.
One of the characteristics
that people talk about rather
consistently is the
notion that you'd
be able to look at somebody,
you could see from their aura
or whatever the
imagery that you get--
to be able to know
their history,
you know what they're
talking about,
and you'd know when
they're telling the truth.
You know how they
feel and you know
if they're telling the truth.
And so again, if that, in fact,
is one of the characteristics
of this emergent
new world out here,
then, in fact, you are
going toward a world
where you have-- now it's not
just privacy of the people
and not of the
government or whatever.
It would be universal.
So you get rid of advertising,
and you get rid of--
Well, let me just
ask you guys one more.
We're about to wrap up.
One more quick
question for you guys.
You know, we've seen recently
the successive of Bitcoin
or it's complicated emergence.
Bitcoin is a virtual
currency that's
based on very complex
mathematical equations that
was developed by an
anonymous mathematician.
It started out cheap, but
became incredibly expensive.
Suddenly, it was $230 a Bitcoin.
It dipped a bit.
But what it, in a
way, could suggest
is the potential for a
currency, a virtual currency,
that disintermediates people
from the banking system
in the same way kind of
Napster disintermediated people
from music.
Do you guys think that
something like that could
be part of this transaction?
-Yup.
It necessarily is.
-It-- it is.
And it will be.
I love everything about Bitcoin.
I love the fact that it makes
me feel like I'm living my life
in a science fiction movie.
And it's just the
algorithms, and the protocol,
and the mathematics is
so beautifully designed.
It's incredible.
And I think it's going to be
a huge part of everything that
we're-- we're talking about.
Awesome.
Well, thank you guys so much
for talking with me today.
It was good to get these
different perspectives
on the future from a
young, tech entrepreneur
and a somewhat more seasoned--
An old geezer.
Veteran of futurism.
And I look forward to having
you back and talking more.
-Yes, it was nice to be here.
-Thanks so much for having us.
Yeah.
Thanks so much.
[APPLAUSE]